[Music]
Salaam alaikum and namaste welcome back
to another session with wash eff at Wawa
calm today we are going to learn how to
knead dough and make chapatis wild rice
is most widely eaten staple diet in
southern part of India chapati is more
popular in north and rest of South Asia
chapati is known popularly as Indian
bread it goes equally well with cooked
lentils non-vegetarian curries and
vegetarian curries and it adds dietary
fiber to the meals which is very healthy
let us learn the process of making
chapatis chapatis are made out of course
wheat flour usually with salt and water
but with other floors
they gain individuality you can use all
kinds of flours like barley flour
cornmeal or millet flour for different
kinds of chapatis chapatis can come in
many shapes and variations the most
common is flat ground but you can make
triangles or layer triangles called
Piratas organize all your ingredients
whole wheat flour water oil salt in one
place so that you're not running around
later with flour cover hands you can
consider adding yogurt milk if you wish
to make the dough all you need to do is
add pinch of salt and water
make a small well pour water goes slowly
on adding your water usually it takes
around 55% of the flour let's say if you
are using 100 grams of flour you will
take around 55 ml of water the secret to
really soft Japanese lies in kneading
the dough must be smooth and just the
right softness which is medium add water
or yogurt as required and continue to
knead till you get the right consistency
just wipe the walls with wet dough and
that takes away any extra flour I like
to make the dough soft because that
produces soft chappathis after you have
kneaded the dough add few drops of oil
adding oil at this stage is optional but
I have found the results in a very
smooth dough and soft chapathis i knead
the dough in such a way it is soft and
slightly sticky that is a secret to make
a very soft chapati after I do that I
sprinkle little amount of flour and make
baked into a ball and let it rest for
15-20 minutes
after resting for 15 minutes make soft
balls of the dough
apply little flour onto your hands if
the dough is sticky now let's learn how
to roll it chopping all it is add little
extra flour as if you are rolling any
bread and then use a rolling pin use a
circular motion to make it round if you
see make sure the dough moves by itself
easily if it is not happening if it is
sticking add little more flour to it
okay this is how you roll it's a body
after your roll just tap the chapati in
your hand so any extra flour comes out
then put your chapati on a really hot
griddle and let it cook for around 30
seconds and turn it to the other side
and then rotate it a little bit this
also gives it even cooking and when you
see these bubbles that means it's it's
getting cooked the process of pressing
gives even color so if some areas is not
touching the pan correctly you pressing
this gives even color so when it is
curved on one side turn it to the other
side at this point of time you may
choose to add some butter or I prefer to
use clarified butter which is called
Desi Ghee and I I love to add a little
butter on it and if you see how it is
popping up that is the best way to cook
a chapati
so this is how you make a choppa
when you remove support ease from the
hot griddle put some ghee and serve
immediately if possible if you are
making chapatis beforehand place
chapatis one above the other and wrap it
in a clock or napkins so they don't get
hard I hope you have enjoyed today's
session of chapati making and learn from
it remember that whatever is all about
inspiring others to cook so please post
your recipes cooking videos and cooking
tips so others may benefit from your
cooking
[Music]